docs/workflows/compare_with_giab_pipeline.rst, before:

Benchmarking with GIAB
======================

This workflow is used in our project to benchmark the sites identified in our call sets for sample NA12878 with the sites identified by the Genome in a Bottle consortium [https://github.com/genome-in-a-bottle]. 
This consortium was created to produce reference data sets that can be used for genome comparison and benchmarking and the high-confidence sites identified by this consortium for sample NA12878 are the result 
of an effort to integrate the data generated by 13 different sequencing technologies and analysis methods.

Dependencies
------------

* Nextflow
 This pipeline uses a workflow management system named Nextflow. This software can be downloaded from:

 https://www.nextflow.io/

* Bgzip and Tabix
 Bgzip and Tabix are part of the HTSlib project, which can be downloaded from:

 https://github.com/samtools/htslib

* BCFTools
 Downloadable from:

 http://www.htslib.org/download/

* IGSR-analysis code base
 The scripts needed to run this workflow can be downloaded by cloning the IGSR-analysis github repo from:

 https://github.com/igsr/igsr_analysis.git

How to run the pipeline
-----------------------

* First, you need to create a ``nexflow.config`` file that can be used by Nextflow to set the required variables. Here goes an example of one of these files::

	params.bcftools_folder='/homes/ernesto/bin/bcftools-1.6/' // folder containin the bcftools binary
	params.tabix='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/bin/anaconda3/bin/tabix' // path to tabix binary
	params.bgzip='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/bin/anaconda3/bin/bgzip' // path to bgzip
	params.non_valid_regions='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/isgr/SUPPORTING/REFERENCE/exclude_nonvalid.bed' // path to BED format file containing the regions that will be excluded from the comparison
	params.giab='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/isgr/SUPPORTING/REFERENCE/GIAB/ANALYSIS_READY/CHR20/NA12878.giab.SNP.chr20.non_valid.reheaded.vcf.gz' // path to GIAB call set
	params.high_conf_regions='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/isgr/SUPPORTING/REFERENCE/GIAB/chr20DIR/HIGH_CONF_REGIONS/HG001_GRCh38_GIAB_highconf_CG-IllFB-IllGATKHC-Ion-10X-SOLID_CHROM1-X_v.3.3.2_highconf_nosomaticdel_noCENorHET7.chr20.bed' // path to high-confidence regions as defined by GIAB

* Then, you can start your pipeline by doing::

	nextflow run $IGSR_CODEBASE/scripts/VCF/QC/compare_with_giab.nf --vcf VCF --chros chr20 --vt snps

 Where:
  * ``$IGSR_CODEBASE`` is the folder containing the igsr codebase downloaded from ``https://github.com/igsr/igsr_analysis.git``
  * ``--vcf`` is the VCF that will be benchmarked against GIAB
  * ``--chros`` is the chromosome or comma-separated list of chromosomes that will be analyzed. i.e.: chr20 or chr1,chr2,chr3 and so on...
  * ``--vt`` is the parameter used to set the type of variants that will be analyzed 

Pipeline output
---------------

This worklow will create a folder name ``results/`` with the following output files:

* ``TP.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were idendified both in our call set and in GIAB

* ``TP.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats TP.vcf.gz``

* ``FP.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites identified in our call set and absent in GIAB

* ``FP.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FP.vcf.gz``

* ``FN.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were not idendified in our call set and are present in GIAB

* ``FN.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FN.vcf.gz``

* ``TP.highconf.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were idendified both in our call set and in GIAB but restricted to
the regions passed with ``params.high_conf_regions``

* ``TP.highconf.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats TP.highconf.vcf.gz``

* ``FP.highconf.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites identified in our call set and absent in GIAB but restricted to
the regions passed with ``params.high_conf_regions``

* ``FP.highconf.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FP.highconf.vcf.gz``

* ``FN.highconf.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were not idendified in our call set and are present in GIAB but restricted to
the regions passed with ``params.high_conf_regions``

* ``FN.highconf.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FN.highconf.vcf.gz``

Commit message:

improving doc for GIAB pipeline
Former-commit-id: 4571581e57e0f2d090cd91a916f2d7e09775a7f7

docs/workflows/compare_with_giab_pipeline.rst, after:

Benchmarking with GIAB
======================

This workflow is used in our project to benchmark the sites identified in our call sets for sample NA12878 with the sites identified by the Genome in a Bottle consortium [https://github.com/genome-in-a-bottle]. 
This consortium was created to produce reference data sets that can be used for genome comparison and benchmarking and the high-confidence sites identified by this consortium for sample NA12878 are the result 
of an effort to integrate the data generated by 13 different sequencing technologies and analysis methods.

Dependencies
------------

* Nextflow
 This pipeline uses a workflow management system named Nextflow. This software can be downloaded from:

 https://www.nextflow.io/

* Bgzip and Tabix
 Bgzip and Tabix are part of the HTSlib project, which can be downloaded from:

 https://github.com/samtools/htslib

* BCFTools
 Downloadable from:

 http://www.htslib.org/download/

* IGSR-analysis code base
 The scripts needed to run this workflow can be downloaded by cloning the IGSR-analysis github repo from:

 https://github.com/igsr/igsr_analysis.git

Files required
--------------

* GIAB call set downloaded from::

  ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/giab/ftp/release/NA12878_HG001/latest/GRCh38/

* BED file with the high-confidence regions defined by GIAB and downloaded from::

  ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/giab/ftp/release/NA12878_HG001/latest/GRCh38/

* BED file with the regions that IGSR excludes from the comparison (file named exclude_nonvalid.bed) containing the GRCh38 coordinates 
  for the centromeres, non PAR regions for chrX and the entire chrY and chrM


How to run the pipeline
-----------------------

* First, you need to create a ``nexflow.config`` file that can be used by Nextflow to set the required variables. Here goes an example of one of these files::

	params.bcftools_folder='/homes/ernesto/bin/bcftools-1.6/' // folder containin the bcftools binary
	params.tabix='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/bin/anaconda3/bin/tabix' // path to tabix binary
	params.bgzip='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/bin/anaconda3/bin/bgzip' // path to bgzip
	params.non_valid_regions='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/isgr/SUPPORTING/REFERENCE/exclude_nonvalid.bed' // path to BED format file containing the regions that will be excluded from the comparison
	params.giab='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/isgr/SUPPORTING/REFERENCE/GIAB/ANALYSIS_READY/CHR20/NA12878.giab.SNP.chr20.non_valid.reheaded.vcf.gz' // path to GIAB call set
	params.high_conf_regions='/nfs/production/reseq-info/work/ernesto/isgr/SUPPORTING/REFERENCE/GIAB/chr20DIR/HIGH_CONF_REGIONS/HG001_GRCh38_GIAB_highconf_CG-IllFB-IllGATKHC-Ion-10X-SOLID_CHROM1-X_v.3.3.2_highconf_nosomaticdel_noCENorHET7.chr20.bed' // path to high-confidence regions as defined by GIAB

* Then, you can start your pipeline by doing::

	nextflow run $IGSR_CODEBASE/scripts/VCF/QC/compare_with_giab.nf --vcf VCF --chros chr20 --vt snps

 Where:
  * ``$IGSR_CODEBASE`` is the folder containing the igsr codebase downloaded from ``https://github.com/igsr/igsr_analysis.git``
  * ``--vcf`` is the VCF that will be benchmarked against GIAB
  * ``--chros`` is the chromosome or comma-separated list of chromosomes that will be analyzed. i.e.: chr20 or chr1,chr2,chr3 and so on...
  * ``--vt`` is the parameter used to set the type of variants that will be analyzed 

Pipeline output
---------------

This worklow will create a folder name ``results/`` with the following output files:

* ``TP.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were idendified both in our call set and in GIAB

* ``TP.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats TP.vcf.gz``

* ``FP.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites identified in our call set and absent in GIAB

* ``FP.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FP.vcf.gz``

* ``FN.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were not idendified in our call set and are present in GIAB

* ``FN.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FN.vcf.gz``

* ``TP.highconf.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were idendified both in our call set and in GIAB but restricted to
the regions passed with ``params.high_conf_regions``

* ``TP.highconf.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats TP.highconf.vcf.gz``

* ``FP.highconf.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites identified in our call set and absent in GIAB but restricted to
the regions passed with ``params.high_conf_regions``

* ``FP.highconf.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FP.highconf.vcf.gz``

* ``FN.highconf.vcf.gz``
Will contain the set of sites that were not idendified in our call set and are present in GIAB but restricted to
the regions passed with ``params.high_conf_regions``

* ``FN.highconf.stats``
Are the stats calculated by running ``bcftools stats FN.highconf.vcf.gz``
